container/pcct/README.md, before:

# ndn-dpdk/container/pcct

This package implements the **PIT-CS Composite Table (PCCT)**.

PCCT is a non-thread-safe hash table that carries both the Pending Interest Table (PIT) and the Content Store (CS).
PCCT combines a DPDK mempool for `PccEntry` allocation, a name hash table, and a token hash table.
Each `PccEntry` carries *either* a PIT entry or a CS entry, but cannot carry both at the same time.

C code for [PIT](../pit/) and [CS](../cs/) is in this directory to avoid circular dependency problems, but their Go bindings and documentation are in their own packages.

## Name hash table

The **name hash table** is indexed by Interest/Data and forwarding hint delegation names.
It uses [uthash v2.0.2](https://troydhanson.github.io/uthash/) library, and stores the head in `PcctPriv` type `keyHt` field.
DPDK hash library is unsuitable for this hash table because it requires fixed length keys, but names are variable length, and padding them to the maximum length and comparing them in full would be too time consuming.

The `PccKey` type represents an index key of the name hash table,
For a PIT entry, `PccKey` contains the Interest name and, if the Interest has a forwarding hint, the name of the chosen delegation.
For a CS entry, `PccKey` contains the Data name and, if the Interest used to retrieve this Data has a forwarding hint, the name of the chosen delegation.
The `PccKey` type stores a copy of Interest/Data name and delegation name.

Searching the name hash table uses `PccSearch` type instead of `PccKey` type.
`PccSearch` contains pointers to linearized names.
This avoids copying these names if they are not fragmented in the input packet.
Searching with a different type is made possible by overriding the `uthash_memcmp` hook with `PccKey_MatchSearchKey` function.

## Token hash table

Commit message:

pit: token assignment and lookup

container/pcct/README.md, after:

# ndn-dpdk/container/pcct

This package implements the **PIT-CS Composite Table (PCCT)**.

PCCT is a non-thread-safe hash table that carries both the Pending Interest Table (PIT) and the Content Store (CS).
PCCT combines a DPDK mempool for `PccEntry` allocation, a name hash table, and a token hash table.
Each `PccEntry` carries *either* a PIT entry or a CS entry, but cannot carry both at the same time.

C code for [PIT](../pit/) and [CS](../cs/) is in this directory to avoid circular dependency problems, but their Go bindings and documentation are in their own packages.

## Name hash table

The **name hash table** is indexed by Interest/Data and forwarding hint delegation names.
It uses [uthash v2.0.2](https://troydhanson.github.io/uthash/) library, and stores the head in `PcctPriv` type `keyHt` field.
DPDK hash library is unsuitable for this hash table because it requires fixed-length keys, but names are variable length, and padding them to the maximum length would be too time consuming.

The `PccKey` type represents an index key of the name hash table,
For a PIT entry, `PccKey` contains the Interest name and, if the Interest has a forwarding hint, the name of the chosen delegation.
For a CS entry, `PccKey` contains the Data name and, if the Interest used to retrieve this Data has a forwarding hint, the name of the chosen delegation.
The `PccKey` type stores a copy of Interest/Data name and delegation name.

Searching the name hash table uses `PccSearch` type instead of `PccKey` type.
`PccSearch` contains pointers to linearized names.
This avoids copying these names if they are not fragmented in the input packet.
Searching with a different type is made possible by overriding the `uthash_memcmp` hook with `PccKey_MatchSearchKey` function.

Calling code must provide hash values.
Hash value for an index key without forwarding hint is `Name_ComputeHash(name)`.
Hash value for an index key with forwarding hint is `Name_ComputeHash(name) ^ Name_ComputeHash(delegation)`.

## Token hash table

Each `PccEntry` can have an optional 48-bit token.
The **token hash table** is indexed by this token.
It uses DPDK hash library, where the index key is the token padded to `uint64_t`, the hash value is the lower 32 bits of the token, and the user data field is a `PccEntry` pointer.

A newly-inserted `PccEntry` does not have a token.
Calling code must invoke `Pcct_AddToken` to assign a token, and then it can invoke `Pcct_FindByToken` to retrieve the entry by token.
