container/fib/README.md, before:

# ndn-dpdk/container/fib

This package implements the **Forwarding Information Base (FIB)**.

FIB is partitioned according to the [NDT](../ndt/).
Most FIB entries only appear in one partition, as chosen by NDT lookup.
In case a FIB entry name is shorter than NDT's prefix length, the FIB entry is duplicated across all partitions.
Go `Fib` type represents the entire FIB; C `Fib` struct represents a single partition.

The FIB implements [2-stage LPM](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6665203/) algorithm for efficient Longest Prefix Match (LPM) lookups.

## Go code

`Fib` type provides methods to execute read or update commands, sequentially executed in an RCU read-side thread that internally obtains and releases RCU read lock.
Supported commands include:

* Exact match lookup.
* Longest prefix match lookup.
* Insert or update an entry.
* Erase an entry.
* Relocate entries during NDT update (see [NdtUpdater](../ndt/ndtupdater/)).

FIB uses [fibtree](./fibtree/) package to maintain a tree of FIB entry names for computing *MD* used in 2-stage LPM algorithm and for determining affected entries during NDT update.

## C code

`Fib` struct is a hash table, a customization of [Thread-Safe Hash Table (TSHT)](../tsht/).
Key type is name TLV-VALUE.
Hash value is SipHash of name.
Element type is `FibEntry` that represents either a FIB entry or a virtual entry (in 2-stage LPM).
Each `FibEntry` carries a sequence number that is incremented upon every insertion, allowing to detect an entry has changed.

`Fib_Lpm` function implements 2-stage LPM procedure.
It is the only function intended to be called from other packages.
The caller is responsible for obtaining and releasing the RCU read lock.

Commit message:

fib: consolidate Tsht into Fib
This allows placing frequently-used cds_lfht_node and
rarely-used rcu_head in different cachelines of FibEntry,
thus enabling further memory layout optimizations.

container/fib/README.md, after:

# ndn-dpdk/container/fib

This package implements the **Forwarding Information Base (FIB)**.

FIB is partitioned according to the [NDT](../ndt/).
Most FIB entries only appear in one partition, as chosen by NDT lookup.
In case a FIB entry name is shorter than NDT's prefix length, the FIB entry is duplicated across all partitions.
Go `Fib` type represents the entire FIB; C `Fib` struct represents a single partition.

The FIB implements [2-stage LPM](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6665203/) algorithm for efficient Longest Prefix Match (LPM) lookups.

## Go code

`Fib` type provides methods to execute read or update commands, sequentially executed in an RCU read-side thread that internally obtains and releases RCU read lock.
Supported commands include:

* Exact match lookup.
* Longest prefix match lookup.
* Insert or update an entry.
* Erase an entry.
* Relocate entries during NDT update (see [NdtUpdater](../ndt/ndtupdater/)).

FIB uses [fibtree](./fibtree/) package to maintain a tree of FIB entry names for computing *MD* used in 2-stage LPM algorithm and for determining affected entries during NDT update.

## C code

`Fib` struct is a thread-safe hash table.
It combines a DPDK mempool and a URCU lock-free resizable RCU hash table (lfht).

Key type is name TLV-VALUE.
Hash value is SipHash of name.
Element type is `FibEntry` that represents either a FIB entry or a virtual entry (in 2-stage LPM).
Each `FibEntry` carries a sequence number that is incremented upon every insertion, allowing to detect an entry has changed.

`Fib_Lpm` function implements 2-stage LPM procedure.
It is the only function intended to be called from other packages.
The caller is responsible for obtaining and releasing the RCU read lock.
