iface/socketface/README.md, before:

# ndn-dpdk/iface/socketface

This package implements a face using socket as transport.

There are two different implementations:

* **datagraImpl** for datagram-oriented sockets (net.PacketConn).
* **streamImpl** for stream-oriented sockets (net.Conn that is not net.PacketConn).

## Receive Path

A goroutine running `impl.RxLoop` function reads from the socket, and places L2 frames on the `SocketFace.rxQueue` channel.

**datagramImpl** assumes each incoming datagram is an L2 frame.
It casts DPDK mbuf's internal buffer as a `[]byte`, and does not copy the frame bytes.

**streamImpl** reads the incoming stream into a `[]byte`, extracts completed TLV elements with `ndn.TlvBytes.ExtractElement` function, and copies them to DPDK mbufs for posting to the channel.

Calling code must run `RxGroup.RxLoop` in an LCore to retrieve L2 frames from the `SocketFace.rxQueue` channel, perform packet parsing, and eventually deliver L3 packets to the **Face\_RxCb** callback.

## Send Path

The transmission function provided in `Face.txBurstOp` is `go_SocketFace_TxBurst`.
It places an outgoing L2 frame on the `SocketFace.txQueue` channel.

A goroutine running `SocketFace.txLoop` function retrieves from the channel, and copies bytes from mbuf to a `[]byte` that is sent on the socket.

Commit message:

socketface: reduce copying on send path

iface/socketface/README.md, after:

# ndn-dpdk/iface/socketface

This package implements a face using socket as transport.

There are two different implementations:

* **datagraImpl** for datagram-oriented sockets (net.PacketConn).
* **streamImpl** for stream-oriented sockets (net.Conn that is not net.PacketConn).

## Receive Path

A goroutine running `impl.RxLoop` function reads from the socket, and places L2 frames on the `SocketFace.rxQueue` channel.

**datagramImpl** assumes each incoming datagram is an L2 frame.
It casts DPDK mbuf's internal buffer as a `[]byte`, and does not copy the frame bytes.

**streamImpl** reads the incoming stream into a `[]byte`, extracts completed TLV elements with `ndn.TlvBytes.ExtractElement` function, and copies them to DPDK mbufs for posting to the channel.

Calling code must run `RxGroup.RxLoop` in an LCore to retrieve L2 frames from the `SocketFace.rxQueue` channel, perform packet parsing, and eventually deliver L3 packets to the **Face\_RxCb** callback.

## Send Path

The transmission function provided in `Face.txBurstOp` is `go_SocketFace_TxBurst`.
It places outgoing L2 frames on the `SocketFace.txQueue` channel.
A goroutine running `SocketFace.txLoop` function retrieves from the channel, and passes them to `impl.Send`.
In most cases, DPDK mbuf's internal buffer is casted as a `[]byte`, and does not need copying; however, `dataImpl.Send` would have to copy if the mbuf is segmented.
