iface/ethface/README.md, before:

# ndn-dpdk/iface/ethface

This package implements Ethernet faces using DPDK ethdev as transport.

**EthFace** type represents an Ethernet face.
FaceId is randomly assigned from the range 0x1000-0x1FFF.
Locator has the following fields:

*   *Scheme* is set to "ether".
*   *Port* is the port name as presented by DPDK.
    For a PCI device, it has the form bus:device.function, e.g. "06:00.0".
*   *Local* and *Remote* are MAC-48 addresses written in the six groups of two lower-case hexadecimal digits separated by colons.
*   *Local* must be a unicast address.
*   *Remote* may be unicast or multicast.
    Every face is assumed to be point-to-point, even when using a multicast remote address.

Multiple EthFaces can co-exist on the same DPDK ethdev.
They are organized by the **Port** type.
Each Port can have zero or one EthFace with multicast remote address, and zero or more EthFaces with unicast remote addresses.
All EthFaces on the same Port must be created together.

## Receive Path

**EthRxFlow** type implements a hardware-accelerated receive path.
It requires the ethdev to support rte\_flow API.
It uses one RX queue per face, and creates a flow to steering incoming frames with matching MAC address to that queue.
There is minimal checking on software side.

**EthRxTable** type implements a software receive path as a fallback.
It polls RX queue 0, accepts all Ethernet frames with NDN EtherType, and discards all frames with non-NDN EtherType (such as VLAN-tagged frames, IP packets, and NDN packets over UDP/TCP tunnels).
Then, it labels each accepted frame with incoming FaceId: if the destination MAC address is a group address, the FaceId is set to the multicast face; otherwise, the last octet of source MAC address is looked up in a 256-element array of unicast FaceIds.
In case a face selected as above does not exist, the frame's incoming FaceId is set to `FACEID_INVALID`, so that `FaceImpl_RxBurst` would drop the frame.
Because of this dispatching procedure, EthRxTable requires every unicast EthFace on the same port to have distinct last octet in its remote MAC address.

## Send Path

`EthFace_TxBurst` function implements the send path.
Currently, the send path only uses ethdev queue 0.
It requires every outgoing packet to have sufficient headroom for the Ethernet header.

The send path is thread safe only if the underlying DPDK PMD is thread safe, which generally is not the case.
Otherwise, the caller must ensure that transmissions on all EthFaces of the same ethdev occur on the same thread.

Commit message:

iface: update READMEs
This concludes EthFace creation refactoring.

iface/ethface/README.md, after:

# ndn-dpdk/iface/ethface

This package implements Ethernet faces using DPDK ethdev as transport.

**EthFace** type represents an Ethernet face.
FaceId is randomly assigned from the range 0x1000-0x1FFF.
Locator has the following fields:

*   *Scheme* is set to "ether".
*   *Port* is the port name as presented by DPDK.
    For a PCI device, it has the form bus:device.function, e.g. "06:00.0".
*   *Local* and *Remote* are MAC-48 addresses written in the six groups of two lower-case hexadecimal digits separated by colons.
*   *Local* must be a unicast address.
*   *Remote* may be unicast or multicast.
    Every face is assumed to be point-to-point, even when using a multicast remote address.

**Port** type organizes EthFaces on the same DPDK ethdev.
Each port can have zero or one face with multicast remote address, and zero or more faces with unicast remote addresses.
EthFaces on the same port can be created and destroyed individually.

## Receive Path

There are two receive path implementations.
Currently, all faces on the same port must use the same receive path implementation.

**EthRxFlow** type implements a hardware-accelerated receive path.
It uses one RX queue per face, and creates an rte\_flow to steering incoming frames with matching MAC address to that queue.
There is minimal checking on software side.

**EthRxTable** type implements a software receive path.
Its procedure is:

1.  Poll ethdev RX queue 0 for incoming frames.
2.  Discard frames with non-NDN EtherType (such as VLAN-tagged frames, IP packets, and NDN packets over UDP/TCP tunnels).
3.  Label each frame with incoming FaceId:

    * If the destination MAC address is a group address, the FaceId is set to the face with multicast remote address.
    * Otherwise, the last octet of source MAC address is looked up in a 256-element array of unicast FaceIds.
      This requires every face with unicast remote address to have distinct last octet.
    * In case a face selected as above does not exist, the frame's incoming FaceId is set to `FACEID_INVALID`.
      Later, `FaceImpl_RxBurst` would drop the frame.

Port/face setup procedure is dominated by the choice of receive path implementation.
Initially, the port attempts to operate with EthRxFlows.
This can fail if the ethdev does not support rte\_flow, does not support the specific rte\_flow features used in `EthFace_SetupFlow`, or has fewer RX queues or rte\_flows than the number of requested faces.
If EthRxFlows fail to setup for these or any other reason, the port falls back to EthRxTable.
It can fail if multiple faces with unicast remote addresses have the same last octet.
In case both receive path implementations fail to setup, the port would remain in an inoperational state.

## Send Path

`EthFace_TxBurst` function implements the send path.
Currently, the send path only uses ethdev TX queue 0.
It requires every outgoing packet to have sufficient headroom for the Ethernet header.

The send path is thread-safe only if the underlying DPDK PMD is thread safe, which generally is not the case.
Normally, **iface.TxLoop** invokes `EthFace_TxBurst` from the same thread.
