docs/hardware.md, before:

# Hardware Known to Work with NDN-DPDK

NDN-DPDK works with a number of hardware devices.
This page lists some hardware known to work with NDN-DPDK.
Note that this is not a complete list.

> Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an experimental procedure or concept adequately.
> Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, nor is it intended to imply that the entities, materials, or equipment are necessarily the best available for the purpose.

## CPU and Memory

NDN-DPDK only works on x86\_64 (amd64) architecture.
See [DPDK getting started guide for Linux](https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/linux_gsg/) for system requirements of DPDK.
In particular, SSE 4.2 instruction set is required.

The developers have tested NDN-DPDK on servers with one, two, and four NUMA sockets.

Default configuration of NDN-DPDK requires at least 6 CPU cores (total) and 8 GB memory (per NUMA socket).
With a custom configuration, NDN-DPDK could work on 2 CPU cores and 2 GB memory, albeit at reduced performance; see [installation guide](INSTALL.md) `NDNDPDK_MK_THREADSLEEP` build option and [forwarder activation](forwarder.md) "memory usage insights" for some hints on how to do so.

## Ethernet Adapters

NDN-DPDK aims to work with most Ethernet adapters supported by [DPDK Network Interface Controller Drivers](https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/nics/).

The developers have tested NDN-DPDK with the following Ethernet adapters:

* Mellanox ConnectX-5, 100 Gbps, mlx5 driver
* Intel X710, 10 Gbps, i40e driver
* Intel X520, 10 Gbps, ixgbe driver
* Intel I350, 1 Gbps, igb driver

### Mellanox Ethernet Adapters

The libibverbs library must be installed before building DPDK or running the `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script:

```bash
sudo apt install libibverbs-dev

# for Docker installation
docker build \
  --build-arg APT_PKGS="libibverbs-dev"
  [other arguments]
```

To use Mellanox adapters in Docker container, add these `docker run` flags when you launch the service container:

```bash
docker run \
  --device /dev/infiniband --device /dev/vfio \
  [other arguments]
```

### Intel Ethernet Adapters

The PCI device must use igb\_uio driver.
The `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script can automatically install this kernel module if kernel headers are present.

If you have upgraded the kernel or you are using the Docker container, you can install the kernel module manually:

```bash
git clone https://dpdk.org/git/dpdk-kmods
cd dpdk-kmods/linux/igb_uio
make
UIODIR=/lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/uio
sudo install -d -m0755 $UIODIR
sudo install -m0644 igb_uio.ko $UIODIR
sudo depmod
```

Example command to bind the PCI device to igb\_uio driver:

```bash
sudo modprobe igb_uio
sudo dpdk-devbind.sh -b igb_uio 04:00.0
```

To use Intel adapters in Docker container, add these `docker run` flags when you launch the service container:

```bash
docker run \
  $(find /dev -name 'uio*' -type c -printf ' --device %p') \
  --mount type=bind,source=/sys,target=/sys \
  [other arguments]
```

* `find` subcommand constructs `--device` flags for `/dev/uio*` devices.
* `--mount target=/sys` flag enables access to attributes in `/sys/class/uio` directory.

### AF\_XDP and AF\_PACKET Sockets

NDN-DPDK can work with any Ethernet adapter supported by the Linux kernel via DPDK net\_af\_xdp and net\_af\_packet socket drivers.
This allows the use of Ethernet adapters not supported by DPDK PCI drivers.
However, these socket-based drivers have limited functionality and lower performance.
See [package ethvdev](../dpdk/ethdev/ethvdev) for more information.

To use socket-based drivers, the Ethernet adapter must be "up" and visible to the NDN-DPDK service process.
Example command to ensure these conditions:

```bash
NETIF=eth1

# if NDN-DPDK is running on the host: bring up the network interface
sudo ip link set $NETIF up

# if NDN-DPDK is running in a Docker container:
# (1) move the network interface into the container's network namespace
sudo ip link set $NETIF netns $(docker inspect --format='{{ .State.Pid }}' ndndpdk-svc)
# (2) bring up the network interface
docker exec ndndpdk-svc ip link set $NETIF up
```

During face creation, if the Ethernet adapter has not been activated with a DPDK PCI driver, NDN-DPDK will attempt to activate it with a socket-based driver.
It is unnecessary to manually define a DPDK virtual device in activation parameters.

The net\_af\_xdp driver uses AF\_XDP sockets, optimized for high performance packet processing.
This requires Linux kernel ≥5.4.
The libbpf library must be installed before building DPDK; the `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script installs libbpf automatically if a compatible kernel version is found.
Due to kernel limitation, MTU is limited to about 3300 octets.

The net\_af\_packet driver uses AF\_PACKET sockets.
This is compatible with older kernels, but it is substantially slower.

Commit message:

xdp: recognize NDN over UDP

docs/hardware.md, after:

# Hardware Known to Work with NDN-DPDK

NDN-DPDK works with a number of hardware devices.
This page lists some hardware known to work with NDN-DPDK.
Note that this is not a complete list.

> Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an experimental procedure or concept adequately.
> Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, nor is it intended to imply that the entities, materials, or equipment are necessarily the best available for the purpose.

## CPU and Memory

NDN-DPDK only works on x86\_64 (amd64) architecture.
See [DPDK getting started guide for Linux](https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/linux_gsg/) for system requirements of DPDK.
In particular, SSE 4.2 instruction set is required.

The developers have tested NDN-DPDK on servers with one, two, and four NUMA sockets.

Default configuration of NDN-DPDK requires at least 6 CPU cores (total) and 8 GB memory (per NUMA socket).
With a custom configuration, NDN-DPDK could work on 2 CPU cores and 2 GB memory, albeit at reduced performance; see [installation guide](INSTALL.md) `NDNDPDK_MK_THREADSLEEP` build option and [forwarder activation](forwarder.md) "memory usage insights" for some hints on how to do so.

## Ethernet Adapters

NDN-DPDK aims to work with most Ethernet adapters supported by [DPDK Network Interface Controller Drivers](https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/nics/).

The developers have tested NDN-DPDK with the following Ethernet adapters:

* Mellanox ConnectX-5, 100 Gbps, mlx5 driver
* Intel X710, 10 Gbps, i40e driver
* Intel X520, 10 Gbps, ixgbe driver
* Intel I350, 1 Gbps, igb driver

### Mellanox Ethernet Adapters

The libibverbs library must be installed before building DPDK or running the `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script:

```bash
sudo apt install libibverbs-dev

# for Docker installation
docker build \
  --build-arg APT_PKGS="libibverbs-dev"
  [other arguments]
```

To use Mellanox adapters in Docker container, add these `docker run` flags when you launch the service container:

```bash
docker run \
  --device /dev/infiniband --device /dev/vfio \
  [other arguments]
```

### Intel Ethernet Adapters

The PCI device must use igb\_uio driver.
The `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script can automatically install this kernel module if kernel headers are present.

If you have upgraded the kernel or you are using the Docker container, you can install the kernel module manually:

```bash
git clone https://dpdk.org/git/dpdk-kmods
cd dpdk-kmods/linux/igb_uio
make
UIODIR=/lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/uio
sudo install -d -m0755 $UIODIR
sudo install -m0644 igb_uio.ko $UIODIR
sudo depmod
```

Example command to bind the PCI device to igb\_uio driver:

```bash
sudo modprobe igb_uio
sudo dpdk-devbind.sh -b igb_uio 04:00.0
```

To use Intel adapters in Docker container, add these `docker run` flags when you launch the service container:

```bash
docker run \
  $(find /dev -name 'uio*' -type c -printf ' --device %p') \
  --mount type=bind,source=/sys,target=/sys \
  [other arguments]
```

* `find` subcommand constructs `--device` flags for `/dev/uio*` devices.
* `--mount target=/sys` flag enables access to attributes in `/sys/class/uio` directory.

### AF\_XDP and AF\_PACKET Sockets

NDN-DPDK can work with any Ethernet adapter supported by the Linux kernel via DPDK net\_af\_xdp and net\_af\_packet socket drivers.
This allows the use of Ethernet adapters not supported by DPDK PCI drivers.
However, these socket-based drivers have limited functionality and lower performance.

To use socket-based drivers, the Ethernet adapter must be "up" and visible to the NDN-DPDK service process.
Example command to ensure these conditions:

```bash
NETIF=eth1

# if NDN-DPDK is running on the host: bring up the network interface
sudo ip link set $NETIF up

# if NDN-DPDK is running in a Docker container:
# (1) move the network interface into the container's network namespace
sudo ip link set $NETIF netns $(docker inspect --format='{{ .State.Pid }}' ndndpdk-svc)
# (2) bring up the network interface
docker exec ndndpdk-svc ip link set $NETIF up
```

During face creation, if the Ethernet adapter has not been activated with a DPDK PCI driver, NDN-DPDK will attempt to activate it with a socket-based driver.
It is unnecessary to manually define a DPDK virtual device in activation parameters.

The **net\_af\_xdp** driver uses AF\_XDP sockets, optimized for high performance packet processing.
This driver requires Linux kernel ≥5.4.
The libbpf library must be installed before building DPDK; the `ndndpdk-depends.sh` script installs libbpf automatically if a compatible kernel version is found.
Due to kernel limitation, MTU is limited to about 3300 octets.

During net\_af\_xdp activation, the Ethernet adapter is configured to have only 1 RX channel, and an XDP program is loaded.
The current XDP program recognizes NDN over Ethernet (no VLAN), and NDN over IPv4/IPv6 + UDP on port 6363; it does not recognize VLAN, VXLAN, and UDP on other ports.
If you need VLAN or VXLAN, you can create a kernel interface with `ip link add` command, and create the face on that network interface.

The **net\_af\_packet** driver uses AF\_PACKET sockets.
This is compatible with older kernels, but it is substantially slower.

It's recommended to use net\_af\_packet for NDN over Ethernet (no VLAN) only.
Trying to use VLAN, UDP, and VXLAN may trigger undesirable reactions from the kernel network stack (e.g. ICMP port unreachable packets or UFW drop logs), because the kernel is unaware of NDN-DPDK's UDP endpoint.
